# Work distribution

Our method of communication during this project consisted of seminars
(werkcolleges), meetings, and additional consultation over text. In our first
meeting, each team member presented a dataset along with at least two different
perspectives. We then chose the subject and data that best suited the
requirements for the project. Our first step after determining the subject was
to clean and merge the datasets from each year to form one singular dataset, for
more information, see [Dataset and preprocessing](dataset-preprocessing.md).
We also started to discuss possible graphs that could be made to support the
different perspectives. We then started making the graphs and work on a story
that builds a narrative around them, which led to the our draft version.
Furthermore, the remaining time has been used to further improve the graphs as
well as the story. Finally, with the help of the given peer feedback, we created
the final data story.


## Kim

Kim took the responsibility of coordinating the project. He cleaned the subsets
2014-2016 and merged those with the 2017-2022 subsets (cleaned by Peter) into a
single 2014-2022 single dataset. He participated in the making of the graphs and
their associated captions, as well as coming up with the overal design. He was
also responsible for taking notes during meetings and made a clear overview of
everyone's responsibilities.

## Peter

Peter first worked on cleaning the survey years 2017-2022. He then participated
in making the graphs. Later on in the project, he helped improve the storyline
together with Wim. Peter also presented the project for peer feedback.

## Wim

Wim participated in improving the graphs and was mainly responsible for creating
a strong basis of the storyline. Furthermore, he looked into several research
papers that support the perspectives and continued to assist on the storyline
during the project.

## Aize

Aize contributed to the development of the graphs and presented the project
during peer feedback. The work distribution was also written by Aize.
